# Problems encountered while developing the PokeList SPA

1) When fetching data for displaying the list of pokemons and for detailed display, sprites for pokemons were returned as an URL refrencing the image on Github. Hence, in order to solve that problem, I've had to map over the array of objects that contain urls and fetch them one by one before writing them as a Blob to IndexDB for caching. On the initial fetch the url was just pushed to the state and for after sessions refreshes, the cached blob was converted into a URL String refrencing the Blob in the memory to be correctly displayed.
2) When loading the application, it is not capable of knowing if the env variables are present during runtime. Only when it would come to usage our application would break. To solve that problem, I created a separate env.ts file in which i validated the environment variables which made the application be aware of the env variables during runtime, meaning the application wouldn't load immediately and we would get a logic error showcasing that if the vars are missing, alowing easier debugging.
3) While implementing search of pokemon on Pokemon List, we had an issue where our fetch would be initiated on every keystroke, meaning the application would constanlty be sending http request slowing hte application and taking resources. To solve that, I've implemented a useDebounce hook which basically takes in a value and returns that same value but just delayed for the requested time. Which in turn my useEffect hook for discovering changes in pages,limit and search would only be triggered for search changes after the desired debounce time.
4) Since React by nature does not have a file based routing, I've had to use the react-router package which gives the application possibility to have mutliple "pages"/routes.
5) For some animations(like Menu on Desktop view or Sidebar on Mobile view) I have used "framer-motion" to solve a problem of too much boilerplate code and complex logic introduced by vanila CSS/Tailwind animation.s
6) Since only specific html elements have built in keyboard navigation support, I've had to use html attribute tabIndex and role so I could enable some of the elements to be focused and navigated by keyboard.
7) Since i18n is not available in react by default, I've had to introduce the i18next library to make the application multi-lingual. With different translation files which are loaded in the i18n config once it's initialized, we solved the problem of the application being monolingual. Also, including the localstorage Browser API we solved the persistence of language currently selected/prefred by the client.
8) Since by default, the fetched data is not cached, I've used the Browser API IndexedDB which allows us to store/cache some data over 100mbs so the application can avoid unnecessary fetches if the data was fetched once already to save time, resources and increase user experience and user interface. With IndexedDB we solved the data persistence accross sessions.
9) In order to use our t(translate method) efficently and safe typed, I had to create a i18next.d.ts declaration file and extended the i18next type to take the keys of the english translation file, since those keys are used as default for selecting a specific translation.
10) Since the validation of data is not part of React by default, I've introuced the Zod package which allowed me to create a schema for validating the input information for login/register. That way, we can avoid sending the request to the server since if our data does not have valid information, it would be useless to send it. Also, we solved a problem of User Experience, where we catch the errors, popualte the state and let the user know what is missing in their form.
11) In order to avoid prop drilling, for dark/ligth Theme I have added a context which allows us to us the context data in components that are wrapped inside ThemeContext. This way, we avoid all the neccesary prop drilling and simply get the needed information in the component we need it, not sending through 4 parent components.
12) 